The worst thing that you do as a leader
is you hesitate on the next decision.
The thing that causes you to hesitate is
both decisions are horrible. Probably
one of my bigger ones on that was we
went public with $2 million in trailing
12 months revenue at 18 months old.
That's obviously a bad idea. But the
truth of it was the alternative was
going bankrupt. And that's a worse idea.
>> It's very difficult and painful to be a
CEO, to be a founder. In spite of that,
so many people want to start companies.
The psychological muscle you have to
build to be a great leader is to be able
to click in the abyss and go, "Okay,
that way is slightly better. We're going
to go that way." If everybody agrees
with the decision, then you didn't add
any value cuz they would have done that
without you. So, the only value you ever
add is when you make a decision that
most people don't like. You are famous
for writing one of the most popular
pieces of literature for product
managers. What I was trying to get out
in good product manager, bad product
manager was the job is fundamentally a
leadership job and it's a tricky
leadership job because nobody is
actually reporting to you.
>> There's always this kind of sense that
the PM is not the mini CEO. How dare you
call yourself that? I actually think
that's exactly what the PM is.
>> It doesn't matter if you write a good
spec or you have a good interview or you
do this or do that. What matters is that
the product wins.
Today my guest is Ben Horowitz. Ben is
the Z in A16Z, the world's largest
venture capital firm with over $46
billion in committed capital. They're
investors in OpenAI, Cursor Andreal,
Data Bricks, Figma, basically every
generational tech company. He's also the
author of two New York Times bestselling
books. The hard thing about hard things
and what you do is who you are. Ben is
endlessly fascinating. He started a rap
group when he was younger. He started
his career as a product manager and
wrote the now famous good product
manager bad product manager piece. In
our wide-ranging conversation, we cover
a ton of ground and Ben shares stories
and insights that he's never shared
anywhere else. A huge thank you to Shaka
Sangor, Ali Goatsy, and Adam Newman for
suggesting topics for this conversation.
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget
to subscribe and follow it in your
favorite podcasting app or YouTube. It
helps tremendously. And if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get a year free of 15 incredible
products, including a year free of
Lovable, Replet, Bolt, NAN, Linear,
Superhum, Dscript, Whisper Flow, Gamma,
Perplexity, Warp, Granola, Magic
Patterns, Raycast, Chapd, and Mobin.
Check it out at lennisnewsletter.com and
click product pass. With that, I bring
you Ben Horowitz.
Today's episode is brought to you by DX,
the developer intelligence platform
designed by leading researchers. To
thrive in the AI era, organizations need
to adapt quickly. But many organization
leaders struggle to answer pressing
questions like which tools are working?
How are they being used? What's actually
driving value? DX provides the data and
insights that leaders need to navigate
this shift. With DX, companies like
Dropbox, Booking.com, Adion, and
Intercom get a deep understanding of how
AI is providing value to their
developers and what impact AI is having
on engineering productivity. To learn
more, visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by
Basecamp. Basecamp is the famously
straightforward project management
system from 37 Signals. Most project
management systems are either inadequate
or frustratingly complex. But Base Camp
is refreshingly clear. It's simple to
get started, easy to organize, and Base
Camp's visual tools help you see exactly
what everyone is working on and how all
work is progressing. Keep all your files
and conversations about projects
directly connected to the projects
themselves so that you always know where
stuff is and you're not constantly
switching contexts. Running a business
is hard. Managing your projects should
be easy. I've been a longtime fan of
what 37 Signals has been up to and I'm
really excited to be sharing this with
you. Sign up for a free account at
basscamp.com/lenny.
Get somewhere with Basecamp.
Ben, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> All right. Thank you, Lenny. Excited to
be here. I'm even more excited to have
you here. I want to start with a
question that a close friend of yours
suggested I ask you, uh, Shaka Singh
So Shock uh he's like we could do
an hour just on how interesting this guy
is and the things he's done.
>> Three hours on Joe Rogan that he's very
>> So we're not gonna do that just to give
a glimpse. He uh he was in prison for 19
years. He was in solitary for seven
years. He uh led a huge prison gang. You
wrote you wrote uh about him in your
book uh as a great exemplar of great
culture in the prison gang that he ran.
Uh so interesting. But uh something that
he learned from you that he told me I
need to ask you about is about success.
and how to be successful and how it's
not what people think. And he said that
you learned this lesson from a pilot.
What is that story? What is that lesson?
>> Well, it's kind of I mean I would say
it's a long life lesson, but that the
pilot story is um I actually you know I
ask people like silly questions
sometimes when I meet them. And so I,
you know, I met this gentleman who was a
pilot and, you know, it was right around
the time uh JFK Jr. crashed his airplane
uh and and ultimately died. And I asked
him, I was like, you know, like what
happened? Because there's always,
you know, the story in the press, and I
know this from them writing about me or
anything, is it's always what's the best
narrative, not what's true. So you can
never kind of actually find out what
happened. you just find like the best
story version of what happened. Uh and
you know the story in the press was all
about oh he wasn't trained on
instruments instrumentation was flying
that night and I wanted to know was that
right? And the pilot said well he said
really it's like all plane crashes are a
series of bad decisions and none of the
decisions by themselves is that bad but
when you add them up it's bad. So the
first decision was he needed to get
wherever he was going and that was the
priority and in flying
that can't ever be the priority. Uh you
know because there are conditions there
are things that happen. And then the
second one was well like his timing of
when the sun would go down was wrong. So
he thought he'd be flying in sunlight
and he wasn't. And then, you know, once
he got up there, it was, you know, when
the plane was, uh, you know, going down,
kind of making it go up, uh, was a bad
decision because he was upside down and
like, you know, so so then I can't
remember all the things, but this guy
had like 17 steps, you know, 17 bad
decisions in a row. And the big thing
for me that that I felt was really true
is it's you know one decision leads to
another. Uh and so you know if you can
break you know if psychologically
you can take the sunk cost um then that
gets you out of a lot of bad paths and
then you know a little good decision may
be difficult but you have to believe
it's going to lead to the next one. And
you know a lot of success is about that.
You know it's a it's a small thing a
small thing that's hard to do that
doesn't seem to have a high impact. Um
but it leads to the next small hard to
do thing and then eventually uh you get
an outcome. So so that was kind of the
concept. But
>> so the lesson there is just success is
just a bunch of little things. It's not
this like well I got here and a big
thing. somebody were to write a story
about me, they would be like, "Then Ben
did this really smart thing and blah
blah blah." You know, happy ending. But,
you know, it really wasn't like that. I
don't think it's like that for you or
anybody. Um, and it, you know, I spent a
lot of time with Shaka on, you know, how
because because it's always your own
psychology that, you know, gets you. And
one of the kind of most insightful
things he said to me is, you know,
because he was in most people who are in
solitary for seven years, that's it.
you're insane, like you're never coming
back from that. It's just an impossible
thing. But if you like study his story,
he actually kind of really was massively
self-improved coming out of solitary,
which is, you know, like, and he
wouldn't recommend that for anybody,
just to be clear, it wasn't solitary,
but what it was, you know, is he changed
in solitary, he was able to change a big
set of beliefs that he had about himself
that kind of got him out of that. And
the thing that his conclusion from it,
which I thought was really interesting,
he's like, "Look, I was in prison for 19
years. I was in solitary for seven. I
come out. I can't rent an apartment. I
can't vote. You know, I can't get a gun.
I can't do like like no rights." None of
that was anything compared to what I did
to myself.
And I think that's very true for CEOs in
general and people in general is that
like all the things that you perceive
that are happening to you that are bad,
you know, be it like the systems against
you or somebody undercut you or racism
or sexism or this or that or the other
is very small compared to like it means
a lot if you believe it. You know, if
you believe what people say about you,
if you believe what they did to you, um
then then that destroys you. But if you
if you go like that's not me. Um you can
overcome almost anything. And that's you
know he's got a new book out on that
anyway that that I think is very good
because that's the
you know I say more than anything that's
the key to success.
>> Something you it's like if you look at
all the writing you've done it's
essentially about the struggle and pain
and suffering of being a C. You're hard.
You know your first book to hard thing
about hard things.
>> There's a lot of talk these days about
just how important struggle is and how
valuable it is to go through struggle.
Jensen's big on this, you know, he talks
a lot about just you have to go through
pain and suffering to be a great leader.
>> Yeah.
You don't really have a choice, you
know, like that. That's true.
>> There's something that I saw you share
that I love, which is running towards
fear versus running away from fear.
Something that you tell all your leaders
to to work on. Uh easy to hear, uh hard
to do. We don't like doing things that
are scary. Running towards things that
are scary. Why is this so important? Why
is this something people need to learn
to do? Well, so the biggest mistake that
you made there the the worst thing that
you do as a leader like there's things
in your control and there's things like
out of your control and hesitation is uh
you know that that's generally the most
destructive and and I can go through all
the ways that it's destructive but it's
extremely bad and the thing that causes
you to hesitate is
you know both decisions are horrible
right like There is like it it's not
business school where like you're going
through a case study and if you had done
that then the company would have gone
this way but if you had done that it's a
great success like that's not actually
you know what happens to you as CEO what
happens to you as CEO it's like okay if
we rearch you know like this product is
the architecture is not actually get us
to where we need to go. I kind of know
that, but if we rearchitect it like
we're gonna probably miss all the
features, miss the quarter, have trouble
raising money, you know, etc., etc. So,
like that's really bad. And then not
rearchitecting is really bad. And so,
I'm just going to try and avoid this
subject because I don't I don't even
want to deal with either of those. And
that's that that's the worst thing
because if rearch, you know, if action
is the better choice, then, you know,
that's good. And then if you don't make
an explicit decision, then the whole
company's going to get nervous because
they know that the architecture is whack
and you got to fix it. And you know,
like probably one of my bigger ones on
that was,
you know, we went public with $2 million
in trailing 12 months revenue at 18
months old, right? Like in the p like
that's obviously a bad idea. I mean,
like there's no question that wasn't a
bad idea. But the truth of it was the
alternative uh because of where the
private markets were was going bankrupt
and that's a worse idea. And if you look
at that time, you know, March of 2001
when we went public, you just look at
the number of CEOs that hesitated on
that and didn't do it and went bankrupt.
It's a lot. And so that's,
you know, that
getting good at making a decision that
everybody's going to go, "Wow, that was
insane." Ben, like you went like the
Wall Street Journal wrote a whole like
long story about how stupid I was. And
then Business Week wrote a story called
the IPO from Hell. That was the name of
like our idea, the IGO from hell, which
like was accurate in a sense, but so
like that's really bad, but it it wasn't
as bad. And this is why it's so scary to
make that decision because you know
that's going to happen. I knew those
stories would get written. Like there
was no question. Uh
and uh yeah, and that's that's the kind
of muscle. So, like if you think about
like the psychological muscle you have
to build to be a great leader is to be
able to like look in the abyss and go,
"Okay,
we're going that that way is slightly
better. We're going to go that way." Uh,
and it's very hard to do. I would say
it's it's a thing people struggle with.
And it began something should I fire the
head of sales? So, I don't want to have
that conversation. Like, and then I'll
have to replace him. And then like
there's going to be a bad PR story and
then and and and and and you can kind of
quickly calculate all the bad stuff
that's going to happen if you do it.
But if you don't do it, uh that's
probably going to be much worse and you
know, kind of that's why you have to run
towards a pain and darkness.
>> What is the advice you share with
founders? Because as you said, it's very
hard to do this. Just like how what
helps them actually get better at this?
Is it just Ben being by their side
telling them this is how it is? Is there
anything else you could
>> No, no, no, no, no, no. Like I would say
this is one where
you know I can't
really coach you to be good at this.
Like I can point it out and like so that
you recognize
that you were slow or whatever. But it's
kind of like I always liken it when I
talk to them. It's like football. Like,
you know, you have a really fast great
athlete, but if they don't trust their
eyes, if they don't run to the ball when
they see it, if they think, "Oh, maybe
that was a fake," then they're that step
slower and then they're not um they'll
never be as good. And CEOs are like
that. You know, if you don't trust what
you see and you don't run at it, then
like you're just not going to be good.
And
it it's hard to get CEOs not to
hesitate. But look one thing the thing
that does help is you know they look at
it and I look at it and you know and I
kind of confirm no that that is as it
appears. Uh and you know sometimes
they're afraid of the conversation. So
that one I can help with. So you know a
CEO might be
afraid like they want to do something
but they they don't know how to say it.
They don't know how to have the
conversation with the employee. So I can
walk them through that. Um, you know, I
I had an instance where the CEO said,
"Hey, you know, like um I need your
help, Ben. My CTO, he's an asshole." And
I was like, "Okay, you know, like
great." I said, "But you're not going to
fire him because I know he's a good CTO
or are you asking me should you fire
him?" He said, "No, no, I don't want to
fire him." And I was like, "So, you're
asking me what to do because you don't
know how to have that conversation with
him about being an without him
quitting? Like, that's what you're
saying." And he goes, "Yeah, that's the
problem." And so I go, "Well, like why
is he an asshole?" And he says, "Well,
he's an because you know, the
other day he made like a very junior
young woman in our finance organization
cry." And I was like, "Oh, that that's
kind of Yeah, I got you." I said, "Look,
this is what I would say to him. I'd say
I just sit him down and I would say look
you're a really good director of
engineering um because you do a great
job of managing the team get the
products out all that but like you're
not really a CTO because to be a CTO you
have to be effective with other parts of
the organization um you can't just be
like effective only with engineering and
so you know and making like somebody cry
like she's never going to do anything
you want you you lost all effectiveness
with all of finance by doing
And so if you want to get good at that,
I'll help you. I'll work with you on it.
But if you don't, I'm going to have to
hire a CTO at some point because like
obviously I need that. And you know, and
and then he's like, "Oh, okay. I can
have that conversation."
You know, I can't have the conversation
that, hey, you're an because I
don't want them to quit. But I can have
the conversation that's more specific.
And a lot of kind of getting people not
to hesitate is just getting them over
that. And so so often like and I would
say, you know, early in a CEO's career,
a lot of it is just not knowing how to
have the conversation.
>> There's also I imagine an element of I
just want to be liked. I don't want
people to hate me. You have this great
line that you want to be liked and
respected in the long run, not the short
run.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's that's tricky because
it's so by the way, I have to deal with
this in the in the firm too and you know
like you know people want to be
entrepreneur friendly. I'm like no it's
not friendly. you know, respectful, but
you got to be able to tell them the
truth in a way that you probably don't
tell most of your friends the truth
because
your friend, you know, like look,
anthropologically we want people to like
us. Like it's just so that, you know,
they don't throw us to the lion or
whatever like that. That's just kind of
a thing. So you say tell people what
they want to hear. But in dealing, you
know, in a in a company level and a, you
know, in a context of you're on the
board of somebody's company, you got to
be able to tell them what they don't
want to hear. That's the most important
thing you're going to say. And yes,
they're not going to like it when you
say it. There's no question. But over
time, like it could save the company.
And uh and m you know all the most
important things I said are things that
I've said to CEOs that they did not want
to hear you know and look that's what
leadership is about. It's making if
everybody agrees with the decision then
you didn't add any value because they
would have done that without you. So the
only value you ever add is when you make
a decision that most people don't like.
Um and that's where leadership comes in
because you know that's where it's got
to get to. Uh, and you know that's
that's a thing that takes practice. I
think you know when Jensen talks about
like you got to get to near death to get
yourself to do that. That's true. You
know it's hard it's hard to build that
if everything's going great and and I
would say like the CEOs who kind of had
an easy run of it for their like let's
say they just launch a product that's an
instant hit. It's very hard for them to
develop that muscle compared to the ones
that built a company like Jensen where
he like you know gutted it out for
multiple decades before they had big
success.
>> Clearly it's very uh difficult and
painful to be a CEO to be a founder. Uh
in spite of that so many people want to
start companies so many people like
dream of having their own company. What
do you who who is not right to start a
company? like what advice do you share
with folks that are thinking about
starting a company that may not
understand just what they're about to
get into?
>> Yeah. So, it it's funny. So, there's a
couple things. You know, John Reed, who
was the CEO of Cityroup when I when I
started as CEO,
said to me something I never forget. He
said, "Ben, the only reason to start a
company is because you have an
irrational desire to do so because it's
not worth the money." And you know, I
was like, "Wow, he doesn't he didn't
even quantify how much money." And this
guy's running cities, so he's a very
numbers banking guy. And he didn't
quantify it. And um I remember when we
sold Loudcloud for $1.6 billion, I
remember thinking, "Wow, that wasn't
worth the money." So So I think if
you're doing it for the money, h that's
a very bad reason and it'll be extremely
difficult to get to an outcome. you
really have to have an irrational desire
to do something larger than yourself to
kind of improve the world in some way.
Um that you know somehow like that is
your purpose and if if you don't feel
that uh then you'll never get through
it. It just is too many too many bad
things happen along the way. So then how
do you think of founders that are kind
of looking around for ideas that kind of
brainstorm that look for you know market
opportunities versus come from I have
this mission I got to do this thing in
the world.
>> If you have a you know and my uh
business partner Mark always talks about
that. So like if you have a product that
forces you to build a company um that is
a great case of it right like okay you
build something and the world wants it
and you need a company to deliver it
that's going to you know you already
have the right product and so that's
very helpful I think there are cases of
people I think Hulip Packard was kind of
built that way that they're like okay
like we got to build technology you know
was that abstract we got to build some
technology for the world you and then
they started with well like what do you
need you know to they called it the next
bench thing what does the uh engineer
sitting next to me need the next
engineer on the bench was so the kind of
how they define the first set of
problems so it can work the other way
but like I think the thing that is in
common is
like it's just a very abstract idea that
like you have to build something that's
going to be important that like is going
to you know people are going to like
working there people are going to
benefit benefit from the products. Like
you have to have some like weird concept
other than oh this is going to be
successful and I'm make a lot of money.
I think that's I think you're way better
off taking sucks offer at Meta and just
doing that like that's a way better
deal. Along these lines, something else
Shaka suggested to ask you about.
Apparently, there's a story where the
CEO of data bricks asked you for
$200,000 in the early days and you said
no. And it's not because you didn't want
to, you know, invest in and it was more
about helping him think bigger. Uh how
what happened there?
>> Uh so there were six six of them. there
are six PhD students and uh well and Yan
Stoker who is their professor um and Yan
is a super genius uh but you know they
you know when I when I met with them
they were like you know we need to raise
$200,000
uh and
I knew you like I knew at the time that
uh what they had was this thing called
Spark and they had you know the
competitor
uh was something called Hadoop and
Hadoop you know had very wellunded
companies already running towards it and
Spark was open source so like the clock
was ticking uh and you know and I think
they didn't quite know what they had
but I and then there's also a thing
always although I I wouldn't say Jan has
this mentality but professors in general
like it's a pretty big win if you start
a company and you make $50 million like
you're a hero on campus. Like that's a
that's a pretty cool thing to have done.
And so I'm always a little nervous about
uh kind of a company that comes out of
academia thinking too small anyway. And
uh so I said, "Look, I'm not going to
write you a check for $200,000. I'll
write you a check for $10 million." Um
because like this company, you need to
build a company. You need to really go
for it if you're going to do this. other
rice like you guys should stay in school
and and they were all graduating right
right then. So that was kind of that.
And Ali
Ali actually was VP of engineering at
the time. And it was a while, you know,
before uh I made him CEO. And that that
was very good luck on my part because I
had no idea that they had a guy that
good inside the company who could become
CEO when I invested. Like that that was
just, you know, God smiled on me and
gave me that one. Um, so speaking of
Ali, I actually asked him what to ask
you about. And he immediately shared
this story. I don't know if you remember
this in your first one-on-one with him
after you made him a CEO. He was
struggling with a bunch of low
performers because he was coming in to
lead the company. And he was trying to
turn things around, trying to coach
them, trying to level them up. And your
advice to him was, quote, "You don't
make people great. You find people that
make you great, that make the company
great, that you learn from, not the
other way around." And there's something
that he called managerial leverage. What
is that all about? What's the lesson
there?
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. So like understand he had
just become CEO. So I was teaching him
he had been VP of engineering
and CEO is different and and I'll get
into why and what I mean by leverage.
So, I actually wrote a post about this
with a little wang quote where I think
the quote was, "The truth is hard to
swallow and hard to say to, but I
graduated from that Now I hate
school." And and that that was always my
feeling about this particular idea was
look, if you're VP of engineering, you
can develop people. You can teach them
to be better engineers. You can teach
them to be better engineering managers.
Like that's very like doable. But if
you're a CEO,
like what do you know about being CFO?
Like what do you know about being, you
know, VP of HR? What do you know about
any of these jobs? You know, except
maybe VP of engineering, right? Like,
and so the idea that you're going to
take somebody who doesn't who isn't
world class at marketing and make them
world class and you don't know anything
about marketing is a dumb idea. It just
doesn't work. Um, and then the company
can't afford for you to be spending time
on that because they need you to make
very high quality, fast decisions. They
need you to set the direction for the
company and they need you to have a
world-class team. And so like that and
it's a very hard lesson if you've been
VP of engineering because if you're a
good VP of engineering, you do develop
your people. But as a CEO like it's not
like you don't do any of it. um but it
is very very small you know compared to
so I like to make things just very stark
so you you get what I'm saying I don't
like to hedge it and then managerial
leverage means this it's very simple
it's okay if I have the ideas about what
your department should do next if I you
know am kind of pushing you to kind of
move your organization forward then
that's no leverage what's leverage is if
you're telling me what you should do and
how you can push the company forward.
That's leverage. Then I'm getting kind
of more than I'd have if you weren't
there. Otherwise, I could just manage a
team. And that's the point when
you feel like you're not getting
leverage, when you got to go say, "Hey,
why aren't we doing this? Why aren't we
doing that?" That's when you got to make
the change. And by the way, he's
unbelievable at that. Um, as good as
anybody I've seen as as a guy who's not
callous as a CEO. He really cares about
the people who work for him. He really
wants him to have great careers and all
that, but he does not hesitate like if
he's losing leverage, he'll make a move.
Kind of going back to the origin story
of A16Z, something you guys were really
big on was helping founders stay CEOs,
become great CEOs, not replace them with
professional CEOs. I wanna I want to
flip this question on you. When does it
actually make sense to replace a CEO?
When are people not going to make great
cos? it really the the there's a very
consistent thing that happens which is
um you know then somebody doesn't make
it and it kind of starts with confidence
is the way I would put it. So
when you you're you invent a product,
you kind of recruit a team so forth, all
of a sudden you're CEO, but you got to
run a big organization. You don't know
how to do that. Like most founders are
like that. Um and so
if you don't know what you're doing,
you're going to make mistakes. And they
all make a lot of mistakes. And then
when you make those mistakes, they're
very expensive. you know, like they
could cost you to do a down round or
they could cost you to lose a company or
they could cost you a customer or, you
know, you screw up a product. Like
they're very high impact and not just on
you but everybody who you talked into
joining you. And so that kind of motion
can really cause you to lose confidence.
Uh and then if you lose confidence, what
happens is you hesitate on the next
decision. And you know, as we talked
about, like hesitation is very dangerous
because one, like it it locks up the
company, but even worse,
what happens is if you have senior
people working for you, they get very
nervous and they feel like they need to
jump into that void and make the
decision for you. And that's when it
gets political, like very political,
because people are like vying for power
inside your little, you know, screwed up
company. And so now you've got a
political dysfunctional organization.
And that um,
you know, like that's that's generally
where like, okay, the founder probably
can't run this thing anymore is, you
know, that's how it happens. So, you
know, most of what we do as a firm is to
try to help people with that confidence
problem. And there's like a whole series
of ideas that we have around that. But
that's, you know, you kind of have to
somehow climb the confidence and the
competency curve together. It's very
hard to do. Uh, and you particularly
like if you're an engineer and you're
used to getting things right or if
you've been a straight A student or
something like that, it's very
disconcerting. Most is better to have
like CEOs who are like C minus students,
you know.
>> Why is that?
>> Yeah. a little physicious like well like
it's just good to be used to filling. So
I I think I I wrote this but like the
the the median on the CEO kind of test
is like 18. It's not like 90.
And so you got to be comfortable getting
a lot of D minuses because the D minus
is fine,
you know, as long as you don't get the
F. as long as you don't run out of cash,
as long as you don't lose the whole
thing, you know, okay, like you got
through it. Keep going, you know. And
that's that's a lot of the the thing
that we try to do as CEOs.
>> Yeah. It comes back to the your core, I
don't know, message through your first
book is just how much you will fail and
how much you will struggle and how much
pain you'll go through as CEO.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And you know, like I mean, a
lot of why I wrote that book was just to
normalize that. I think what happens is,
you know, particularly, you know, when I
wrote it and I think it's come back and
been true now is like the way the
narrative gets written on all these
successes is like, oh, they came up with
a genius idea and then they built this
company and they hired all these smart
people and it was all great, but like
that's not all how it happens. Um, and
you know, I've spent enough time with
like everybody from like Mark Zuckerberg
to Sam Aldman and so forth that like
they all go through that same thing that
you who has, you know, your struggling
company go through like you screw a lot
of things up and they have massive
consequences. Uh, but you you you have
to kind of maintain your confidence.
Actually, I was at a storytelling event
last night and I we were chat I was
chatting with someone that I ran into
there and told her I was chatting with
you today and she said how meaningful uh
your first book was to her as a founder
exactly as you said normalizing that
it's very hard and painful and this is
just the way it is.
>> Yeah. And the feeling look I mean you
know like if you think about
organizational design or you know goals
and objectives or OKRs or what whatever
management technique like you need like
a you know a basic like eighth grade
education to like do any of that stuff.
It's it's not that complicated. The
difficult part is the the feeling that
you have when you have to do it uh is
very like the hard thing about a reorg
is you're redistributing power. So,
you're going to have people really
freaking mad at you because somebody's
losing power if you do it correctly. And
that person may be like a really good
employee. Dealing with that is the hard
thing. Like knowing how the organization
should work to make communication
better. It's not that complex.
>> Yeah. I think about I was at Airbnb for
a long time and just thinking of Brian
who I don't know even know if he had a
job before Airbnb.
>> Oh yeah. I don't know. I spent a lot of
time with Brian and he uh after COVID he
it all kind of clicked for him. Um and
then he did that you that good talk on
founder mode and so forth. But the
reason that was so articulate is because
he had screwed every one of those things
up. um you know he hired LT and you know
all this stuff and you know these are
very senior people and you know he
didn't he wanted to defer to them but
you can't defer as a CEO you know
because you know what Airbnb should be
doing he may know what finance
should do but you know what Airbnb
should do and this kind of thing and and
then then it gets really wild uh when
you like you can't defer decisions as a
CEO you got to like understand what
people are saying and go now we're going
to do this
>> and this again comes back to the point
of you have to go through the struggle
and pain and failure to learn those
lessons.
>> Yeah. No, like I mean it's they're
really hard to learn without kind of
doing and without often like without
paying the consequence and I you know
like even I like I make mistakes. I I
was having conversation with Ali the
other day and I was like he's like how's
it going Ben? And I was like, "Well, you
know, like I'm finally dealing with
something that I had put off for, you
know, a very long time." And he said,
"Why'd you put it off?" I said, "Cuz
things were going too good. I didn't
have to deal with it." And he was like,
"Yeah."
He said, "I know that like and I say
Alli is, you know, one of the if not the
kind of best private company CEO out
there." And he's making a mistake and
I'm making a mistake. So like it's just
tough. You said that one of the maybe
the main reason founders fail SEOs is
they lose confidence and you had some
ideas that you guys have to help
founders work through that. Are there a
couple you can share how you help?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So we do we do a lot of
things on that. So the kind of design of
the firm is about confidence. So the
first thing is well what would give you
well like if you can get stuff done. So,
what if I could give you a network
that's as good as Bob Iger's network day
one, like the day you step into the job.
And so, you know, we have 600 people at
the firm. And why is that? Well, most of
them are building that network for you.
So, you can call any CEO or anybody in
Washington or, you know, kind of any
executive or that kind of thing and get
them on the phone and they'll talk to
you and you can kind of deal with that
thing. Uh and then that just makes you
feel like a CEO and then you know we
have a lot of people in the firm like
myself
who you can talk to on like a CEO to CEO
basis as opposed to an investor to CEO
and just kind of feel that early in the
firm's days we used to do this thing I
think I'm going to bring back in some
form this thing called the CEO barbecue
and it was like you know a lot of people
have these events where like you know
they bring in speakers and this and that
and the other and I always felt like
those were one they were too many days
and then sometimes
you know the what they said wasn't
really applicable and that kind of thing
and so what I said well why don't we
just have a barbecue and like I would
barbecue we get everybody in my backyard
was 500 people at the peak which is why
the kind of stuff because I couldn't
cook that much food after that and then
uh you know we'd have Larry Page and
Mark Zuckerberg in Pa West. And so
you're a CEO in there with Cor. You're
like, "Wow, like I must be important.
I'm here with all these guys and we're
just hanging out having a drink, eating
barbecue." Um, and so then when I go
back to my company, like I feel like I
am somebody and like, okay, I might not
be like perfect at all this, but I am
really a CEO. I was at the CEO barbecues
were crying out loud and that kind of
thing. And so yeah that that's but it's
all the whole idea was always like okay
do you feel like you can do it because
that's yeah that's about it. Uh and look
having been in and you know
every CEO has been in a position where
they feel like well maybe I shouldn't be
the one running this thing. Maybe it's
just too big for me. And that's a bad
you don't you don't want to go there. uh
and because as as we've said founders
can get to the next product and that's
something that you know almost no
professional CEO is able to do like
there have been rare cases but very rare
so clearly you've worked with a lot of
companies a lot of founders let me kind
of zoom out a little bit and ask you
this question what's the most
counterintuitive lesson you've learned
about building companies that goes
against common startup wisdom
>> well you know the common startup wisdom
keeps changing change it, you know, uh,
like one of the early ones that, um,
you know, was wrong and kind of Brian
articulated it and then now I think a
little bit of what people have gone to
is also wrong. So the the first idea
that was wrong was like, okay, build a
team of like senior executives, you
know, as soon as you get product market
fit as fast as possible and they can
scale the thing. And I think that you
got to build that team slowly and
deliberately kind of paced to your
ability to man integrate and then manage
them. Because if you bring in a bunch of
senior people and you don't know really
how they map to your company or how that
function works or so forth, then you're
going to start deferring. And once you
start deferring, it's going to get out
of control very fast because they're
going to build empires. they're going to
get political, they're going to do all
that kind of thing. So, that was bad
advice. You kind of have to do it in a
measured way. I think that founder mode
I think a lot of people have taken to
never hire anybody with experience and
that's also bad advice uh in that look
somebody who knows how to do something
can really accelerate your thing. So
very early on um one of the founders,
great founder, uh Arcelon at data bricks
was running sales and I'm like Olli like
you're going to have to hire like
somebody who knows sales. Um because
Arselon's PhD in computer science like I
like that but um that that's probably
not where you're going to have to start
if you're going to catch these guys
before they take Spark and like use it
against you.
And you know and I sat down with Arcelon
and I explained why I said look you know
a lot of what sales there's a lot of
knowledge in how to build a worldwide
sales representation you need knowledge
of customers territories territory
splitting rep profiles like there's just
like a litany of stuff that you really
can only learn by doing trial and error
and you don't know any.
So like you're phenomenal. Like let's
get you, you know, and he's still he's a
very senior executive in the company
now, but we need somebody who knows
that. And the idea that there are
companies that go, okay, we're just not
going to hire that because we're in
founder mode.
That's also a mistake. So then there's a
lot of it's more subtle than you think.
Uh and it's more complex than you think.
And so you kind of have to get all the
way to the truth. And these little
snippets of advice that VCs give because
they watch some podcast are all
stupid. Like it's just there's a
lot of depth to these things. You have
to know the answer to the next question,
the next question, and the next
question. And it does drive me crazy.
Like one of the funnier things that
happened um along these lines just to
show you how little you know as an
investor about what it means to be CEO
uh one of the we were at a board dinner
one of the CEOs uh says to me he goes or
one of my you know one of our CEOs says
hey you know Ben like that thing you
told me a while ago about don't be CEO
at home he said like I I I
was doing that and I stopped and it
really helped me and then the other kind
of VC said, "Yeah, you know, you got to
unplug sometime." And I said, I was
like, "What the are you talking
about? He's CEO. He's not unplugging.
Like, he's getting all the
time. Like, he's got to deal with that."
Like, that was not what I meant. I was
like, "You can't go home and boss your
family around." That's what I meant, you
know? Like, so so it's the the you hear
something from like somebody who But if
you haven't done it, you don't even know
what that means. And so then you kind of
then trying to transfer the advice to
the next guy. That's not going to work.
So anyway, so but it's, you know, like
he was very innocent. I just don't want
to kind of uh speak bad of him, but like
it that's how it sounds, right? But
that's not what it is.
>> That's an amazing story.
>> So the advice partly here is just don't
believe everything you see on Twitter
and little sound bites of advice.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean like I and I think
actual CEOs know it and that's kind of
how like people in my profession kind of
get a bad wreck because like giving
advice
that that's not something that you know
but something that you heard is very
dangerous I think. So speaking of advice
that uh you've shared that might be out
of date now you are famous for writing
uh one of the most popular pieces of
literature for product managers. There's
a lot of PMs that listen to this podcast
called good product manager bad product
manager. And if you actually go to that
post today at the top you say this
document was written 15 years ago and
it's probably not relevant today for
PMs. I present this merely as an example
of a useful training document. Still
people link to it. I actually just link
to it as an as is just like this is
something every PM needs to read. What
is it that you think people should maybe
not take away from it and what do you
think people still should take away from
that piece?
>> Yeah. So the reason I wrote it when I
wrote it was um
that I had a lot of product managers and
one thing about product management is um
it's a job that's completely different
at every company like and there is no
training for it. So like everybody kind
of figures it out how as they go and
depending on like what's being
emphasized
like they'll get wrapped around the axle
on you know like if it's enterprise
company okay well like you know pitching
to customers or like I need to be like
really good with the press or I need to
be really good at writing you know the
product requirements document or that
kind of thing and none of the those are
all like these tasks Um but none of
those were the job. Uh and what I was
trying to get out and good product
manager, bad product manager was
the job is fundamentally a leadership
job and it's a tricky leadership job
because nobody is actually reporting to
you. So it's like this influence. How do
I get people to do what I want? you
know, even though I'm not paying them, I
can't fire them, I can't promote them,
and so forth. And which is kind of the
essence of like real leadership because
if you start to rely on promotion and
firing and so forth for authority, then
you you're never going to be good at
being CEO or anything. So I wanted them
to get into the mindset of okay your
actual job
is to get a product into market that
customers love that's better than
anything that anybody else in the world
puts in market. Like that's your job.
And so to accomplish that job you need
engineering to
understand you with clarity. You need to
understand engineering with clarity. You
need to have a really good view of the
market and the competitors and the
technology and so forth. And you need to
kind of put that all together and
deliver the thing. And all the other
things are tasks that may or you may or
may not need to do. I don't know if you
need to do them, but like the thing is,
you know, you have to be the leader.
You've got to get the thing done. And
and so what I think it's still good on
is that like the the mindset like you
know be the leader. Uh I think the
details of it um you know of any kind of
thing that was kind of task specific was
like really for my group at Netscape in
like 1996
whenever the hell I wrote it. So it's
you know it's a kind of document I read
out of frustration. Uh but I'm I am glad
that that the people still like it. Uh
and I think leadership in general is
under undervalued underestimated um it's
it's the most powerful thing. uh and and
most of the great you know great
companies Jensen is a great example like
what a phenomenal leader he is not just
of Nvidia but of the whole industry and
he doesn't have authority over the
industry but like he drives it forward
and that's and and that's why the good
product manager bad product manager is
so important because that thing if you
learn how to do it that's the thing uh I
didn't realize you wrote that initially
as just an internal document and then
you made it public
>> it was it was kind of before um blog
bugging took off. So, it's just an
internal thing. Uh, and I published it
later.
>> It was I was just getting so mad, you
know, and by the way, my product
management team
>> at the time was like very good uh very
talented people. They just didn't they
they just were not getting that concept.
So, you know, like David Widens at
Coastal Ventures, Ragu Raguram who was
went on to be CEO of VMware. I mean,
like the team was like that team. Uh,
but they were driving me crazy. And so I
I just I was like I can't yell at people
anymore. I have to like explain to
myself.
And so it's a good thing if you find
yourself yelling at people like you
probably haven't explained what you want
is was the other big take away from
that.
>> Do you ever think that piece would be so
long lasting and so I don't know.
>> No, I thought I didn't even know like I
thought it was kind of like aggressive
when I wrote it. Like you could tell I
was mad because I called it good product
manager bad product manager. It's like
bad dog, you know, bad pride, bad bad
product manager. That's that was kind of
the emotion I had. So, you know, it's
it's kind of shocking. Some of the
things that you write, I I I would say
that that's, you know, and kind of
creative and you probably know this,
like the ideas that you have um the
things that you write in five minutes
end up being much better than things you
write in five weeks, you know. And uh I
I find in talking to you know uh
musicians or writers or anybody
everybody has that same experience like
the thing that you've already
synthesized so much that you just have
to write it out is uh that's the best
stuff. There's something that you
mentioned there in your answer about the
PM being the leader. There's always this
kind of sense that the PM is not the
mini CEO. How dare you call yourself
that? I actually think that's exactly
what the PM is. They're basically the
closest to the CO. their kind of job is
to think like the CEO within the team.
>> Yeah. People get mad, you know, like
because everybody, you know, like this
is the whole challenge of management in
general, like people get jealous over
stewardship. But look, from from the
perspective of the PM,
like it doesn't matter if you write a
good spec or you have a good interview
or you do this or do that. like what
matters is that the product wrench and
you have to get all the way to there and
kind of work backwards from that and
you can't do that without leadership
because it is about okay we want to
build that and and you're not
necessarily the person comes up with
every idea or this or that or you're
just the keeper of the vision you know
and that's true for CEOs too like you
don't want every idea in a company
coming from the CEO like that's I think
it's misunderstanding what a CEO is is
why people don't like that. They don't
know what a CEO is. But a CEO isn't the
one who has every idea, gives every
order, does every That's not the way it
works. The way it works is there's
somebody who's got to consolidate, you
know, get all the good ideas,
prioritize them, decide which good ideas
we're going to do, and then get
everybody on the same page so that they
have very high fidelity understanding of
what that is. And
if you you know so that it is a CEO kind
of function. Now it doesn't mean like
I'm better than you. It just means that
like that's what I'm doing.
>> This episode is brought to you by Miro.
Every day new headlines are scaring us
about all the ways that AI is coming for
our jobs, creating a lot of anxiety and
fear. But a recent survey from Miro
tells a different story. 76% of people
believe that AI can benefit their role.
But over 50% of people struggle to know
when to use it. Enter Miro's innovation
workspace, an intelligent platform that
brings people and AI together in a
shared space to get great work done.
Miro has been empowering teams to
transform bold ideas into the next big
thing for over a decade. Today, they're
at the forefront of bringing products to
market even faster by unleashing the
combined power of AI and human
potential. Guests of this podcast often
share Miro templates. I use it all the
time to brainstorm ideas with my team.
Teams especially can work with Miro AI
to turn unstructured data like sticky
notes or screenshots into usable
diagrams, product briefs, data tables,
and prototypes in minutes. You don't
have to be an AI master or to toggle yet
another tool. The work you're already
doing in Miro's Canvas is the prompt.
Help your teams get great work done with
Miro. Check it out at miro.com/lenny.
That's mirro.com/lenny.
Let's talk about AI. I'm very proud of
us. It's been almost an hour. We haven't
even mentioned AI. I think that's a
record.
>> Uh, okay. So, I asked Adam Newman, uh,
WeWork founder, now Flow founder,
someone you work closely with now, what
to ask you about, and he said he has
some really interesting insights about
how AI is impacting hiring. You know,
Adam is probably the single most
controversial investment that we ever
made. like we got called everything from
stupid to sexist to racist to this and
that for like like literally just
funding that. Um and I think it's going
to end up being one of the best
investments we ever made. Um he's doing
a phenomenal job there. But it's there's
an important principle in in that which
kind of we do as a firm which I think is
um not widely done but I would love it
if people copied it which is and I
something I learned um
you know somewhat from Shaka which is
you you don't judge a person by the
worst thing that ever happened to them.
Like we've all had bad things happen to
us. We've all made bad decisions. Most
of them they don't make a miniseries
about, right?
And so like to judge them on that,
you want to judge people on what they do
well, not what they screwed up. And you
know, because that's where you see the
talent. If you look at what Adam did
well, it's truly spectacular. Uh you
know, like we work, everybody knows how
we work. It's like it's the name a more
important commercial real estate brand
than we work like you can't uh and so
like what an accomplishment and then you
know and there were so many things that
went into that and and yeah so many
things he did right and then if you kind
of look at really unravel the things
that went wrong most of it was like a
combination of inexperience and nobody
around him that would tell him the truth
and so like that and you know maybe he
wasn't good at listening to the truth
either at the time. Um,
but to throw away a guy on that, which
is, by the way, the world was so mad at
us for not throwing him away for for
believing in him. Um, is just a it's a
big mistake. And
uh, you know, I credit Mark because Mark
is the one who called him up originally
and just said, "Hey, Adam, what are you
doing?" uh because like you know we
watched what you did at Weiwork and we
thought it was pretty impressive and so
I think that uh you know that that's
probably the biggest secret there. It's
not really about AI but I think that um
look looking you know you judge Al Davis
once said you know coach players on what
they can do and I think that's very true
you know judge people on what they can
do um you know coach people on what they
can do like help them
take their strengths and use them as
opposed to overfocus on their weaknesses
and just, you know, hand ring about the
one thing they don't know how to
do. Because look, everybody's uneven.
>> What it's like what you're describing
essentially this is the job of an
investor is to find an underappreciated
asset and invest or before something
people don't see.
>> Yeah. And I mean I think that it's you
know like
venture capital is really about
investing in people, right? like you
know that
you have ideas as an investor but like
what you really are ultimately betting
on is the entrepreneur and the
entrepreneurs's idea because the initial
idea isn't where they end up usually it
changes a lot um with with everybody we
invest in so you know you kind of have
to make the judgment on the person and
you know how you do that is uh is really
really important one of the things we
emphasize inside the firm this look like
we're investing in strength, not lack of
weakness. Like I want to know like how
good like are they world class? Do they
have a world class strength and
you know can that beat anybody and look
everybody's flawed and so like let's
help them deal with the flaws and you
know surround them with people who can
handle that and put the right person on
the board who can talk to him. I go to
all Adam's board meeting. Even though
Mark's on the board, I go to all his
board meetings because
I'm the one who's good at like killing a
guy who's that confident. Um when he's
like, "Okay, that's not your best idea."
Like that's a good world for me. But
that's how you deal with that. You
don't, you know, throw them away and go,
"Okay, like we don't want to be called
names, so we're not going to invest in
Adam Newman after he built Rework."
That's crazy.
>> That's also why you guys invested in
Cluey, I imagine. Similar.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's right. Like
I mean like if you look at what those
guys did,
that was like some like highlevel
marketing genius too. And you know
that's really something. Plus the
product is awesome.
>> I'm going to bring us back to AI.
Something that a lot of people are
talking about right now while we're
recording this is this potential huge
bubble we're in with AI. Sam Alman said
we're in a big bubble which is you know
that's saying a lot. I'm curious just
how you think
>> what what is it saying? So you gota like
first of all I should qualify this by
saying I'm an investor um and Sam's a
CEO. So CEOs
have to have much more purpose when they
talk. Investors just have to be
entertained. Um, so you got to give Sam
credit for like what is it in his
interest to say it? Well, like if it's a
bubble, then
the one thing you should invest in is
him and not all these guys chasing after
him. Um, so that I I would say like
that's very smart. And then the other
thing that's smart about it is there's
nothing that you can say to the press
that will make them love you more than
saying all investors and like
entrepreneurs chasing this are idiots.
Like they love them because you know the
press are generally haters. And so it's
just like red meat for the haters which
is also super clever. So I think whether
even he believes that or not that was a
super smart thing to say. So I'll just
put it there. Whereas what I'm going to
say um won't be as smart, but it will
I I don't really have a an axe to grind
here. I mean, I could have an axe to
grind and say, okay, like let's get all
the other investors out. I'll say it's a
massive bubble.
But what I would say about that is um
so the first thing the one thing about
bubbles is
anytime
everybody thinks it's a bubble, it's not
a bubble because in order for it to
bubble, you need capitulation
and that you need kind of everybody to
believe it's not a bubble because then
the prices really go out of control. But
as long as there's people who think it's
a bubble, then it's hard for that to
happen. And it's funny, I had this
debate um
in in the economist I think with Steve
Blank in like 2011
or 12 when everybody thought it was a
tech bubble if you can imagine that
which it absolutely was not but because
there were like 1,400 articles saying
that we were in a tech bubble and yeah I
mean you know where prices were then
compared to where they are now. Um, but
I knew because everybody was saying it
was a bubble when a bubble like I knew
that the prices were higher, but the
reason the prices were higher was we're
getting to a global market. AI prices
are higher than prior prices, but if you
look at the revenue growth and memories,
we've not seen anything like it. The
products are work. Chachi Sam's product
works so amazingly. We never seen that
before. Like not even Google, not not
anybody. And so like that's real and you
know we have companies
that you know went from 0 to 800 million
in a year and that kind of thing and so
it's not a
I would say there's a basis for the
prices going up first of all now
will the the I think the thing that's
right about kind of what Sam is saying
is the landscape is early really early
the technology techology is very
immature as amazingly as it works. You
know, there's a long way to go to
improve it. So, it's very possible, you
know, when you have that much
technological change that the positions
that these companies have achieved with
their high revenue isn't sustainable and
that, you know, there will be a
competitive uh change that either kind
of lowers prices or a new number one
emerges or that kind of thing. And so
that yeah that's possible but I would
characterize that as being like a
financial bubble uh in that like like if
you go back to the great.com bubble that
everybody's always waiting for it to
happen again which I was CEO during the
thing that happened there was very
different which is it was the internet
and every smart investor knew that the
internet was a big deal like how could
you not know that the internet
was of course it's a big
But like if you go back to 1996
at Netscape, we had 90% browser share
and we had 50 million users. So there
were 55 million people on the internet
in total
and half of those were on dialogue. So
and then to build a product like Evite,
the greeting card company had 300
engineers.
That's how hard it was to build this
stuff. And so the math didn't work. And
the math didn't work on any of those
ideas. And but the investors kept
pouring money in. And then eventually,
you know, um, everybody went bankrupt
because there was no revenue coming in.
And like when they figured that out,
then nobody would invest in anything.
And of course, then everybody realized,
well, the internet was actually real.
And Paul Krugman didn't know what he's
talking about. And like it was going to
be a big thing. And then Facebook and
Google and all these things emerged. But
the thing that made it a bubble was like
the unit economics didn't work, the
businesses didn't work. Like these
businesses are all working and they're
being priced appropriately for how
they're growing. So that's not in
effect. So the the thing that you could
say is they're not going to keep growing
like that or like and so forth. And I'm
not sure about that. Like like the
products, like I said, are working so
much better than any technology product
that we've ever built has worked. like
it's just mind-blowing how good this
stuff is. And so
I don't know. I I if I had to bet I
would bet not a bubble. Uh you know
there I think there will be some
dislocation. I think companies that
I think always in venture capital if
you've got like a run like this then the
great company and the crap company both
get funded. But you know that's just
that's just venture capital. uh sound a
bubble
>> for founders starting companies these
days when you look into the future of
the AI industry say in 5 10 years how do
you how do you think things will play
out slash where do you think the biggest
opportunities remain where are you guys
looking to invest most
>> in infrastructure um
I I think that like there is obviously
like a real estate power cooling play um
>> yeah I I think that's a little outside
of you know kind of hardcore technology
technology investing that we do. But
there's another layer which is like who
can run you know you take a given open
source model who can run it the cheapest
um with the kind of lowest latency and
that's going to be extremely valuable
like whoever has that uh and you know
Google has been historically very good
at that and so forth and I Sam is really
trying to build that um now a Stargate
and so I think that's going to be a very
important layer of value. I think that
you know on the foundation model side
you have to be very selective as an
investor. So in order to compete in
foundational model world our basic rule
of thumb is you have to be able to you
know without much product pro progress
raise at least $2 billion because that's
basically what it's going to cost you to
train something that gets you
competitive enough to make money. Um and
there are just very few founders like
that. Uh so Ilia is one of those you
know mirror is one of those fee is one
of those but like that's the kind of
class of person you need and there's you
know whatever there's certainly less
than 10 of those in the world and so
that that's kind of like an important
area but a small area uh and then I
think the application
layer is going to be very very
interesting and I think that you know if
you look that
Sam like he's making most of his money
off chat GPT almost all his money off
chat GPT now and Chat GPT is like
you know I it looks like it's got a real
like it or not it's got a real moat it's
very hard to knock it off its perch
there's a you know everybody's taking a
shot at people with great distribution
like Google and you know Elon and and
Zuckerberg and everybody and like that
thing just keeps going like it is so I
think the applications are both
more complex and uh kind of stickier
than people thought they were
originally. Like so the the thing that
people got very wrong is this whole thin
wrapper around GPG. Like that's really
wrong. In fact, here's how wrong it is.
back in the 80s there that same phrase
was used but it was thin wrapper around
an RDBMS
uh which
>> database.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it meant companies
like Salesforce were basically just a
thin wrapper and I think that that's
kind of the mistake people made. So like
we're at this company Curser and if you
look under the covers in Curser
they've built like 14 different models
to really understand um how a developer
works like a high-end like a a real
developer and they have that those
models have tons and tons of
interactions with how people talk to
their friend cursor about how they
should design their programming so
forth.
And that's like real that's not that's
not just a thin layer on a foundation
model. And I think there are many many
applications like that. Uh and
and so I I think there's going to be a
lot of opportunity at the application
layer. There's going to be some
opportunity at the foundation model and
of course you can invest in SAM, you can
invest in Anthropic and so forth and as
well. Um
but there will probably be like a very
small number of companies at that set
and then a almost unlimited number of
companies at the application layer and
then you know as the technology advances
we'll of course see more things with
embodied AI. I mean already, you know,
autonomous cars are working like really
well now after a long long long long
time since like I think Sebastian won
the uh the challenge in 2006 when he
drove the self-driving car across the
country. Um and here we are 20 years
later and now they're deployed. So that
was a long time. Robots I think is a
harder problem than self-driving cars.
So, we'll see how that goes. Um, but uh
yeah, there there's certainly a lot in
that world as well.
>> Wow. Okay. There's a lot to this answer.
Something that
>> no ex exactly what I was looking for.
the cursor example. It's something that
comes up a lot on this podcast in the
application layer specifically the uh
thought that the way to win in this
space and to build a moat is as you said
build your own model slash have
proprietary data that you build through
people using your product thoughts on
that
>> yeah I mean I think that's ends up just
being what's required so it turns out
that um
the universe is longtailed is is as fat
tailed and humans are very fat tailed in
terms of human behavior, human
conversation and so forth. So to get to
the real meaning of it and to get to the
kind of essence of the problem,
you know, in any domain uh turns out to
be I think more complex than we thought.
And so like like the early things and
you know people were running around uh
saying okay there's going to be one big
brain to rule them all and these kinds
of things. uh that's kind of not played
out yet. uh and and in fact like if you
look underneath the covers
you have LLMs which have generalized
pretty you know like in fascinating ways
but they've kind of also asintoted in
that um you know we we have run out of
data for the most part and so if you
look at the GPT5
LLM compared to the GPT4 one and how
much more it costs to train and so forth
like it's
you It's definitely not going linear
anymore. On the other hand, the
reinforcement learning side has been
linear, but it doesn't generalize. So,
if you build a great uh programming
model, it may be an idiot at math. And
so, that I think is just very different
than what people would have said three
years ago. And I think that's kind of,
you know, that there's not something
that's both scaling and generalizing
yet. And you know, maybe we'll get
there, but that certainly opens the door
to
something that's more user friendly,
that's more effective in any number of
domains than just the basic foundation
model infrastructure. Now, those models
are incredibly important and they're and
I think open AI is probably 80% of the
revenue in AI or something like that
now. Like it's massive. So that
foundation model is really really
important. Um, and then like the the the
the basic consumer app is really really
important. Um, that just answers
whatever the hell you want to know. Like
th those things are like very very real.
But I do think you know particularly and
then if you get into like enterprise
stuff and then it's no longer internet
data it's their data that becomes very
different like data bricks is having a
lot of success there because okay well
once you're inside a company guess what
like you care about access control and
that's hard with an AI world you know it
gets trained on some stuff how does it
know who has access to that information
who present and so forth. Um you have
semantic issues. So if you look at an
enterprise,
find 10 enterprises, they all have a
different definition of what a customer
means. Like you would think customer is
a basic thing. Well, is it a department
at AT&T? Is it AT&T? Is it like a person
at AT&T? Is like what the hell is a
customer? It turns out to be very very
very meaningful. uh particularly if
you're trying to um figure out like
important things like churn and this and
that and third. So like that kind of
stuff matters. So so it I I would just
say like the the problem space is
a lot bigger than you can just attack
with a basic foundation model. um at you
know currently you know maybe that will
change and like if that changes then
certain prices will have in retrospect
looked way inflated and others will look
you know too low but
you know that that is TBD
>> so a big takeaway from this is that
there's still tons of opportunity for
founders to start companies building AI
products
>> I think so I mean you can solve so many
everything that we couldn't solve with
software we can solve now almost so it's
It's a really big world.
And it's funny, you know, like because
we're investors in in Whimo and uh one
of the things when you get into like
what took so long to make Whimos this so
safe like they are now, it wasn't the
things that everybody reported on the
podcast. It wasn't sle and, you know,
heavy rain and it was people. It was
like the human who was driving 75 in the
25 zone. was very hard for the AI to
anticipate because it was rare but
important and the number of rare
important crazy that humans do is
very high. Uh and I think that that goes
for all of AI. Um so to make things work
really well, you have to understand this
this very kind of fat tale of human
behavior. along this AI thread,
something that is really important to
you clearly, something you talk a lot
about is is the US being successful in
AI and be in leading the world in AI.
Why is it so important? Why is something
you spent a lot of time on?
>> It starts with uh I think my view of the
US uh and its role in the world. So
it's my personal view is like it's very
very very important
not for society to be completely fair
because it's not going to be completely
fair or completely equal because we've
never had one that's been completely
equal. But it's important that everybody
have a chance um at life you know and
particularly
uh you know kind of both culturally but
also just like you can't advance the
world if you know you can't tap into all
of your resources. And so if you kind of
take away motivation and and these kinds
of things, you get into trouble. And if
you look at the kind of every country
today and and this is by the way um so
you want like the right amount of
decentralized power. Um you know you
don't want it to be completely
concentrated. Concentrated power makes
it very very difficult for everybody to
have a chance. This is the big kind of
lesson of communism over the last
hundred years is it turned out right and
and you know we still have politicians
selling it this way today. It's like oh
it's power to the people. No no no it's
power to you because you're removing all
power from the private sector and
installing it into the government and
then you're putting yourself in charge
of the government. And so I become
extremely powerful. And this is why it
didn't matter if it was Mao or Pulpot or
Chescu
or Stalin,
everybody died because when you give
anybody that much power, nobody has a
chance. There's no incentive. Uh there's
no carrot. There's only stick. And so
use that stick. And that's just the
nature. It's a systems problem. It's not
a person problem. It's not Stalin was
evil. Joesco is evil. It was like that
system is evil. Uh and that's a saying
with fascism, right? Be it Hitler or
Mousolini, it doesn't matter. Like that
level of power is evil. Um and the US
does the best job
systematically. It's the best system.
It's got all kinds of issues. It's got
problems. People always trying to defeat
it. But you know one of the things that
um
you know if you look at kind of the
declaration of independence or the
constitution like the language is very
important you know it's we hold these
truths to be self-evident. What does
that mean? It means there it's not my
rule. It's not the president's rule.
It's God's rule. And so those rules are
bug the president.
And then you work in that context and
that that distributes power because
you're under the law not under the
person. And we see that you know now
even with Europe where Europe is kind of
the leaders are going well I have a rule
it's you can't say certain things or
I'll throw you in jail. And the kind of
shield they hide behind is well like we
have to keep the kids safe. But if you
say something that I don't agree with
and the kids hear it, they're not safe,
right? Like so the the the kind of um
transitive property of like is
going to override.
And so it's really important that we
have at least like one society and as
flawed as we are, as flawed as the US
is, it's still the best. And you can see
it by the number of new company
creations, the number of new ideas that
come out of here. and so forth. Um it's
really really important that the US kind
of stays important and powerful in the
world. And we know from the last
century, if you look at the last
century, who were the countries that had
economic power, military power, cultural
power, they were the ones that
industrialized.
Yeah. And the ones that industrialized
first and best and the ones that didn't
became communists, right? like you know
Russia, China like they they were slow
on industrialization and they fell into
this very dangerous uh system.
Looking forward that's going to happen
again but it's going to be AI.
And
so it is kind of fundamentally important
not just to like America but to humanity
that America succeed at that. you know,
like we don't have to be the one winner
or this or that, but we do have to be
like in that tier. Uh, and you know, as
I go around the world and travel, I
can't tell you everybody and and
everybody was getting, by the way, very
very worried about us uh earlier um and
they say, "Look, we need you to succeed.
You know, don't destroy the dollar.
Don't like fall behind AI. Don't
overregulate it too early. Don't do do
these things, please." because we need
you to win like because we're all like
counting on that. Uh and and I think
it's um it's the most important work
that we do. It's why we're so involved
in policy and and and so forth. Um I
think this is also, you know, very going
to be very very true with crypto which
ends up being an incredibly important
networking technology that complements
AI. Uh and uh and so that's I Yeah. And
that you know that work is I would say
beyond for the money like that's
although like we will end up making a
lot of money with the right policies
like so I don't want to like seem
totally philanthropic on this but but
it's more important than that it's it's
certainly more important than us
succeeding or anything like that that
the country succeed. Speaking of
philanthropic and other passions of
yours, something that I don't think most
people know about you and I think will
give them another insight into how
interesting you are. You uh run an
organization called Paid in Full, which
uh is incredibly cool. Talk about what
that's about, why this is so important
to you.
We kind of our our ethos as a firm is um
kind of uh what I'd say is something
from nothing. Um you know like that this
is the greatness of entrepreneurship.
you start with nothing and then you you
make something really important. And um
you know that that kind of that that is
also how hip-hop started where you had
like a bunch of kids who didn't even
have instruments um and they kind of
created something out of nothing and and
the people in that world always talk
about that and you know one of the
really unfortunate things that happens
is the people kind of who invent the art
form and certainly in the case of
hip-hop
don't get anywhere near the kind of
proportional benefit of their invention.
And a lot of the guys uh you know people
have forgotten about or you know are
kind of struggling to make ends meet and
so forth. So what we created was this
thing called the paid and full
foundation named after uh the Rock Kim
Eric B song which I did call Rock Kim
and ask him for permission to use the
name. So read it taken. And what we do
is we give essentially pensions to the
old rappers um that enable them to kind
of continue their work. Uh and then we
have a big event. Go to
paidenfoldfoundation.org
for tickets which is amazing. Um where
they kind of get the award and uh you
know and they're celebrated by all their
peers and so forth and it's really
phenomenal. But you know, so some of the
award ease have been uh Raken um
Scarface uh from the ghetto boys um
Roxan Shante Grandmaster Cass Kul Modi.
This year we're honoring
George Clinton for being sampled uh Kool
Gap and Graham Puba and also uh Jalil
from Houdini. Um and it's just it's very
I I can't even describe how high impact
it is on these guys. I mean, I think
Rock Kim was touring close to 200 nights
a year and he got his award and came out
with his first album in 15 years and is
doing amazingly well and all of a
sudden, you know, everybody's going,
"Oh, yeah, that's the greatest rapper of
all times." Like, they're finally going
back and remembering all the things he
did. Uh, Roxan Shante,
I mean, nobody had mentioned her in
years and years and years. And I think
six months after we gave her the award,
the Grammys gave her a lifetime
achievement award, which is amazing. So,
it's a it's super high impact. It's a
great thing. You know, as a hip-hop fan,
I say dream come true. So, it's not only
built.
>> What is what's the origin story of you
and hip-hop? I imagine many people look
at you and wouldn't imagine you you
these records behind you. Nas gifted
you. You uh you're so deep into the
community. Just how did this all begin?
>> Well, so there's I actually wrote a blog
post on it called The Legend of the
Blind MC. uh which I think would be uh
if you're really interested, it's worth
reading, but it is kind of a story of me
uh becoming a rapper and um and like how
that occurred and how it went and so
forth. But uh you know like I always say
the very short story is you know I was
in New York when it at the birth of
hip-hop and we're at the birth when it
really became big kind of 84th radi8
and yeah it's just the most exciting
thing yeah to see a new art form kind of
pop out and the creativity and
everything you know once music kind of
becomes mainstream
I would say it gets very shaped by
business and like in the early days
there's no yeah everybody's just coming
out with whatever idea they have and so
forth then so there's the early days of
rock and roll were like that the early
days of jazz were like that so
>> I see now even more why you guys uh
brought on Eric Tornberg uh beyond his
many talents he's also really big into
rap himself
>> yeah yeah I need to that that's a good
reminder I need to make sure he gets the
paid fall
>> Ben this was incredible
>> is there anything else that you want to
leave listeners with or share before we
get to our very exciting quick lightning
round?
>> Yeah, I mean I would just say um you
know like if you're a CEO listening to
this then
know that like
how you feel about yourself is going to
end up meaning as much as anything. And
so like
take your time on that. Don't don't uh
you know like self-evaluation is the one
of my favorite quotes is um that one of
my old managers told me as like there's
no uh there no from this day on no
credit will be given for predicting rain
only credit for building an arc and I
think that's more true for CEOs than
anybody you know you have to build arc
like it doesn't matter like if you
predict you're going to fail you still
failed it doesn't it gets you nothing um
so what you have to do is figure your
way out of it and spend all your time on
that.
>> Well, with that, we've reached our very
exciting lightning round. I've got five
questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Yes, sir.
>> First question, what are two or three
books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people, not
including your own books?
>> Yeah. So two that um I learned a lot
from are one is the weirdest people in
the world uh which um
it's a kind of big history book but
through an anthropological kind of
cultural lens and it's really
fascinating explains an awful lot about
like how society works and how little
changes in the rules completely change
the culture. Um, you know, one of the
things that he he basically endeavors to
explain, okay, why did the West get
ahead of the rest of the world? Um, and
it kind of comes down to like a weird
anomaly with the Catholic Church where
they've kind of enforced um monogamous
marriage. And it turns out that the
natural state of humans is polygamy. Um,
but the problem with polygamy is there's
no cooperation among men. um which is a
problem. Uh and as a result uh and then
everything is secret. So there's no
shared there's no sharing of knowledge
because it's all kept in the family in
what he calls kinbased culture. It leads
to something called kinbased culture and
like even recipes won't be shared if
you're in a kinbased culture because
it's a secret. Um so you can't build
science, you can't build cities, you
can't build big companies. Um and you
know so because the west kind of
enforced broad monogous marriage early
it was able to kind of evolve into all
these things. And he kind of shows why
and how he does these psychological
tests today with people from kind of
monogous cult marriage culture kind of
like western culture and kinbased
culture and the psychology is completely
different. And he gives examples like um
you know if a person murders another
person is that still murder if that
person who did the murder is your
brother? And in western society yeah
that's a murder in kinbased culture it's
not a murder it's just not
and so like that's really different
and so like morality is different like
everything kind of comes off of that. So
it's just a fascinating fascinating
book. Uh so that's
That's one. Um
I I tell you know another book that I
recommend a lot is Shaka's book uh his
first book writing my rhymes. He has a
new book that I think is better which is
called How to be free. Uh so I'm going
to start it's not quite out I or maybe
it's releasing it's releasing like next
month. So I recommend it. So what it
does is it goes through like how did he
work his way out of prison and solitary
confinement to his current psychology
and what are the techniques he used and
it's um
they're very powerful very powerful
ideas so I think that like you know CEOs
always ask me like how do you deal with
it like how do you deal with it you know
they'll ask in like work life balance or
like and it's like what are you talking
about no work life balance for seats
Um but or particularly like entrepreneur
CEOs like come on but like what do you
do? Do you meditate? Do you do this or
that? But he kind of goes through the
things that you really ought to do. So
that that's what I would recommend if
somebody's wondering like how do you
deal with all this pressure?
>> I love this uh just the whole idea of
Shaka being this uh help for cos someone
that killed someone went to prison led a
prison gang. I just love that how
>> valable turn out to be really
complicated things to ma manage enough.
Sorry for getting into this, but the
problem with running a prison gang is
you're just dealing with people who all
come from broken culture, right? Like so
in any organization like the fundamental
thing is trust. And so you're you you're
bringing in a bunch of no trust people.
And so you can't and like and it's kind
of like a military organization. It's a
gang. And if you think about a military
operation, if you don't have trust,
people don't trust the order, then
you're completely dysfunctional. So, how
do you build trust from zero is a very
interesting problem. And he's a genius
at that, by the way. Uh, and you know, I
learned a lot uh from kind of talking to
him about it. So like that from a
management standpoint it's a I would
just say it's an important kind of
boundary case of how you build culture
and uh so I he is very very smart at
that. I mean you kind of have to like I
said you have to look at people
>> about you know their greatness not not
the worst thing they ever did. I I know
this is the lighting ramp, but uh can
you just share one example of something
he did that was like wow that's a really
good lesson someone trying to create a
good culture that worked for him.
>> Yeah. So like one of the things that he
did that that I thought was um
really
smart is well he did a couple things.
One is just like a simple thing was he
just made everybody eat lunch together
in the game just to kind of build
rapport, relationship, trust like it's
all one thing. We're all together on
that. And I think you know like
particularly
in like remote world and so forth.
People really underestimate how powerful
like just that idea can be. And then you
know another thing he did is he he made
kind of like
morality.
You know he he had kind of very specific
things about
you know if you you had to be good to
your word
internally and externally. Um, and so
normally a gang you went like, you know,
like I said, it's kind of a kinbased
culture thing, but it made it much more
powerful when he said, "Look, like you
you can't do devious like outside
the gang either." Um, and he had a bunch
of examples of that that I went through
in the book, but it's a very um
like like I said, because you're
building it from zero, you really have
to take a hard line on things that I
think people in companies don't even
take a hard line on. Like, you know, is
it okay to lie internally? Probably not.
Is it okay to lie to a customer? Well,
in some organizations it is. Um, but
like in Shaka's organization, like
that's as big a cuty as I'm internally
and and and these things I think end up
being really important.
>> We're going to link to this book. This
is uh what you do is who you are. This
is your second book that fewer people
know about and this is one of the
stories you tell and just what the
lessons are.
>> It's kind of a more advanced book, you
know, like I think people don't
>> you kind of have to survive to want to
care about dealing with the cultural
issues and
>> the survival book has a bigger audience.
Amazing. Okay, we're going to keep going
with Lightning Round. Is there a
favorite recent movie or TV show you
have really enjoyed?
>> Yeah. So, well on TV I really like Slow
Horses, which is like uh the show about
the MI6 kind of cast offs um guys and
then I you know I haven't seen a lot of
movies lately but I watched Centers. I
went to the uh theater centers and it's
I mean just the cinematography is
unbelievable and the story is really
original and the acting is incredible
and the costumes are amazing. So it's
it's just like a great
kind of
comprehensive piece of work like people
have the craftsmanship on that thing is
just a lot beyond what most people
making movies are doing these days. So I
I I really enjoyed that.
>> Mhm. Yeah, I hate scary movies, but I I
watched it and loved it.
>> Yeah, it wasn't that scary.
>> It wasn't that scary, but still, you
know, zombies popping out of corners.
>> Yeah, not not my jam usually.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there a product you recently
discovered that you really love? It
could be a gadget, could be clothes,
could be something else.
>> I bought a coffee machine called the
Technov Mocha Master, which is freaking
incredible. In fact, uh, a friend of
mine saw it. I was like, what is that?
And I just bought it for him, too,
because it's so awesome. Like, this
thing makes coffee that
it's just like perfect. Like, there's no
bitterness. It's completely clean. It's
amazing. Like, the only problem with it
is I can't drink coffee that it doesn't
make anymore,
which
>> I don't know if that's a good thing or a
bad thing, but
>> that might be that might come out
someday in the AI future.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Uh, two more questions. one, do you have
a is there a life motto that you often
come back to find really useful in work
or in life?
>> The thing that I would say has had the
biggest effect on me is something my
father said to me years ago um which is
life isn't fair. And that that seems
like really really simple, but I think
that um the thing that defeats people
more than any other thing that I've seen
just in life is the expectation of some
fairness. Uh you know, like it's just
not fair. And there are like all kinds
of stuff that are going to happen to you
that
you know and happen to everybody um that
don't happen to other people that are
completely unfair but it doesn't matter
because that's the way it is and as soon
as you get that idea out of your mind um
then you can just deal with it like oh
yeah of course it's unfair but I'm going
to what should I do now which is the
real question not how do I go back and
get people to be fair because nobody's
gonna be fair. It's not fair. It's the
nature of it. If you think about it for
more than five seconds, you'll realize
that. And I think a lot of uh
you know, and it's as an individual like
if you want to make the world a better
place, whatever. But
for as an individual, do not expect
anything to be fair. It'll only defeat.
>> Final question. This comes from Shaka
actually. Uh he gave me so many great
suggestions. I had to save this one for
last. Okay. Okay. So, the question is,
if you had to build a business
curriculum from two hip-hop albums and
one funk album, what would they be and
why?
>> I think probably
Follow the Leader um by Rakim. I thought
that was so
and and and the reason is kind of uh
what we had kind of gotten into earlier
which is um
leadership. So when he came out with
that song, which was like, you know,
maybe the greatest hip-hop song ever
written,
you know, he's telling people to like
follow him. Um, you know, follow the
leader. Uh, and
just to have the idea that he was the
leader of the entire art form, not just,
you know, his band,
it isn't like amazing idea. Um and and
then the way he expressed it was
incredible. And then he's got uh he's
got other great concepts in there. Um
that would give you like it's hard to
listen to that record and have
confidence. I think from a like
competitive purely competitive
standpoint stillmatic um from Nas I mean
that's one with ether. That's the one
with uh get yourself a gun. That's the
one with you man. It's kind of like
all of like the idea of competition is
kind of encapsulated in that in that
album. So that that would be the other
one. Uh and then funk
for one nation under a group for sure.
one nation under group because it's kind
of like this is uh
how do you
initiate people into like a concept or
an idea and and right how do you infuse
them like one nation under a groove is
all about joining the nation um and like
it's so musically interesting and and
kind of getting people to be part of
that that is probably
I If you asked me tomorrow, I probably
have three other ones.
>> Incredible. I'm going to go listen to
these. Ben, final question. How can
listeners be useful to you?
>> If you get something that makes you
better, please take it. If you need kind
of more advice on it, let me know. But,
um, look, my job is to help everybody
build something great. So, if you're if
you're an entrepreneur, um, thank you
for that.
>> Uh, also check out Payeyton Full
Payeytonfoundation.org if you want to
learn more about Yes. that
>> nonprofit. Yeah, definitely. We would
love to have you.
>> Amazing, Ben. Thank you so much for
being here.
>> All right. Awesome. Thank you, Lenny.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.